Diagramming Only Tool – Diagrams 

    Status: It is actively being developed as constant updates are being made to the website.  

    Summary: This tool enables users to draw out a diagram of their threat model. Various shapes, arrows, and other useful items are provided to generate a comprehensive diagram that incorporates the components, data flows, and other essential elements.  

    Advantages: 

        It substantially assists with visualizing the model clearer 

        It is simple to use for novice users as everything is organized neatly and not overloaded with a ton of information at once.  

        The diagram is modular, which is great for making detailed models. 

        You can save and share your work. 

    Disadvantages: 

        As this tool is strictly utilized for diagramming, it doesn’t come with numerous features needed in a threat modeling tool, such as threat and risk assessments and suggestions for mitigations.  

        There isn’t a threat and controls assignment engine or natural suggestion engine.  

DSLs/Threat Modeling as Code Tool – ThreatSpec 

    Status: The tool is currently stale. The files in the GitHub repository have remained unchanged for the past 4-5 years. The date of the last commit was December 30, 2020. 

    Summary: This threat modeling tool is an open-source project that simplifies the process of securing a system by annotating your code with comments regarding threats and security concerns, thus creating a threat model during the development of the system. The tool will subsequently generate a report with a descriptive model and data flows. 

    Advantages: 

        This is great for developers as they can mitigate any threats that exist within their code (insufficient input validation, Cross-Site Scripting, etc.) 

        It shows the users what threats have been mitigated and which ones still need to be addressed.  

        The tool doesn’t interrupt the users focus. 

    Disadvantages: 

        It gives the user a long list of threats and mitigations, which may be too much information presented at once. 

        May be uneasy for inexperienced users to navigate the tool initially.  

        The tool can solely create a report with a diagram from the given code. You can’t quite drag and drop text boxes and arrows to represent the components and flows of the model.  

UIs – Threat Dragon 

    Status: This tool is actively being developed as the last update was not long ago. 

    Summary: This threat modeling tool is an open-source platform that lets users create threat models and log the threats and mitigations accordingly. Users can either log in via GitHub or as a local user. 

    Advantages: 

        The tool is completely free. 

        Very simple to utilize. A wonderful tool for beginners. 

        Availability of drag and drop components for efficient usability 

        Ability to prioritize threats and mark them open or mitigated.  

    Disadvantages: 

        Users must enter every threat and mitigation manually, and it doesn’t provide any valuable recommendations. 

        It doesn’t have a knowledge base, including CAPEC, and relies on the user’s knowledge of the threats and controls. 